Hello,
SolarCoin is pleased to announce a new ongoing claim holding program for solar monitoring
and utility platforms and their customers. This service provides an SLR income stream for
platforms and a convenient, zero-risk service for their customers.

While many claimants are comfortable with cryptocurrency and are interested in receiving their
SolarCoin directly, the process of managing wallets and cryptographic keys is still a significant
hurdle.

In order to enable as many solar producers as possible to participate in the program, the
SolarCoin Foundation has created a process for Affiliates to offer a claim reservation service to
claimants without requiring a wallet address.

The claim is reviewed and approved or rejected in an identical manner to those with wallet
addresses. During grant payment, however, grants are not issued on the blockchain, but
accrued to the claimant's account.

The balance information is tracked by the SolarCoin Foundation and is available to query in a
machine-readable format by the Affiliate, but as the Affiliate maintains the client relationship, it is
responsible for providing this balance information to the claimant. In exchange for providing this
service, the Affiliate may receive a service fee from the claimant of up to five (5) percent of each
grant, determined at the time of MOU signing.

1. Affiliates must provide, upon request, balance information to claimants.

2. Affiliates may choose to cache balance data or query the SolarCoin Foundation-provided
API at time of request.

3. Failing to protect the API keys, prevent denial-of-service attacks, keep claimant data
secure, or other security breaches may be grounds to terminate the MOU at the
SolarCoin Foundation&#39;s sole discretion.

4. The Affiliate must inform claimants that, at any time, the claimant may provide a wallet
address. Upon receipt the Affiliate must, in a timely manner, provide that address to the
SolarCoin. At this time, the accrued balance will be transferred to the claimant and all
future claims will be issued to this wallet address. The Affiliate will no longer receive any
service fees for this claimant.

5. The service fee will be deducted from grants at time of issuance and either accrued on
behalf of the Affiliate or sent to a wallet address of the Affiliate's choosing.

Let us know if you are interested in offering this program to your customers.

Best,
Team SolarCoin
