SolarCoin Goals & Principles
Goal: accelerate the global transition to solar energy
The Solarcoin reward was created to:
Mitigate carbon emissions, globally (subject to legal and regulatory compliance)
SolarCoin from January 2010 retroactive for claims (reflecting previous efforts). 98 Billion SolarCoins are to be given to producers of Solar energy. This amount reflects 40 years of estimated solar energy production from 2010 to 2050.
Participants Roles, responsibilities and reward:
1.	Solarcoin Foundation 
a.	Responsibilities & Reward
(1)	Overall Mission delivery save the planet: 
a.)    Network, Generator pool & Genesis pool
b.)    Fraud prevention (minimize false/duplicate claims)
c.)    Growth of SolarCoins in circulation due to verified claims
d.)    Growth of participant network
e) 	 Goal to become non-granting entity facilitating audits and SLA standards and potentially disappear into SolarCoin council
(f)    Decentralization of governance and executive management 

(2)	Genesis pool 0.51% of overall program less start up costs (see below)
2.	SolarCoin Affiliates (functional roles)
a.	Responsibilities for data integrity
(1)	KYC (Know your customer)
KYC AML good actors
New accounts for services and software
(2)	KYD (Know your device) solar producing facility
way of differentiating products services/ data/ SLR from affiliate fees
Prevent fraud and duplicate claims/ link facility to Owner
(3)	KYE (Know your energy) produced energy verification
(a)	negotiated part of affiliates fees/ data
i)	Prevent fraudulent claims of productions

b.	Reward
(1)	Affiliate bounty (10% of the first years claim payable from the NDF Network Development Fee pool)
(2)	Penalties for false claims bad data to be determined by solarcoin council
3.	Claimants
a.	rewards and responsibilities
(1)	Verified energy production, legal, no money laundering etc. 
(2)	Encourage small scale resilience & deployment
SLR: <20KW nameplate= (1 SLR=1 MWh , >20KW 1 SLR=1MWh @90% with 10% going to NDF (Network Development Fee)
SolarCoin ecosystem works in the following way:
1.	Solarcoin conditionally granted for each verified 1 MWh of energy to the producer (Solar facility owner) or primary user in the case of residential facilities. 
2.	Blockchain software maintains the SolarCoin token rewards ecosystem
3.	Emerging decentralized democratic governance:  
Phase 1: Solarcoin Foundation hands over power to>
Phase 2: Solarcoin Council (SolarCoin Affiliates + SolarCoin Foundation) >hand over power to> 
Phase 3: Solarcoin Ecosystem (SolarCoin Foundation > Affiliates > Claimants)

Operating Principles SolarCoin Ecosystem
Economic principles
1 MWh generated per 1 SLR conditionally granted into circulation
Circulation principle Restricted & visible circulation (TX with each circulation event from pre-mine) 
Genesis pool restricted to never being more than 5% of circulating base
Value creation via Network utility theory (broad distribution)
Network growth builds value
Value eventually shows up in price
Price can accelerate the energy transition as an incentive to generate more solar energy
Decentralization & Openness principles
Resilience is derived from openness and diversity of participants
Growth innovation occurs with open participation and minimum barriers
Governance principles
Equality = Justice before Power 
economic / technical /political and other power receives equal treatment. 
support the goals and objectives (keep audits checks and balances between participatory groups)
Legal: Comply with all local legal and regulatory obligations
Emergent decentralization phases
Centralized boot up phase must end quickly as possible
Trusted actors achieving critical mass emerge
Fully decentralized participation (liquid / representative etc. TBD)
Transparency
When possible meetings / votes are open as are all documents (exceptions include security related issues)
Transparency of certain developments may be restricted as (material non-public information) to prevent insider trading
Technological principles
Security over everything else. Protect end users first.
Reduce technology risk: Laggard early technology adopter
Open source at all possible times
Maximum decentralization: data, platforms, participants
Transparency & Privacy principles
Each SolarCoin circulation event is traceable in blockchain (SCF Reports and details can be audited by affiliates and regulators)
Each claimant/facility is verified via KYC/KYD and available to regulatory authorities/ community auditors upon 24 hr request
All claimant individual data is kept private and non shared with the exception of the above cases
All affiliates and participants are named and known entities

